what you're looking at here is a
30-year-old man condemned to die in
prison after receiving two life
sentences without parole for building a
website with PHP Ross rri is the world's
most notorious web developer he was
feared by many as dread pirate Roberts
on the dark web and famous for building
the Silk Road 1.0 a global Marketplace
kind of like Amazon where you can buy
and sell Goods with the main difference
being that you don't have to follow any
laws and you can do it anonymously not
following the law is a good way to make
a lot of money but you take on the added
risk of going to prison and Ross rri saw
the downside of that risk when the FBI
seized the Silk Road in 2013 and put him
in jail for life but despite Donald
Trump saying that drug dealers should
get the death penalty he gave Ross rri a
full unconditional pardon yesterday in
today's video we'll look at the crazy
story and interesting technical details
behind the Silk Road it is January 22nd
2025 and you're watching the code report
before we get into the Silk Road story
we first need to get one thing perfectly
clear drugs are bad you shouldn't do
drugs if you do them you're bad because
drugs are bad okay because it followed
no laws and did all transactions
anonymously through Bitcoin people used
it primarily as a Marketplace to trade
mind altering substances wber was an
advocate for individual liberty and a
true Enemy of the State who not only
operated for profit but to send a
message but the website did prohibit
items that caused harm like weapons of
mass destruction or things that would
harm children the website launched in
February 2011 then a few months later in
June Gawker published an article about
the site which dramatically increased
its traffic but also drew the attention
of law enforcement throughout its 2 and
a half years of operation over 100 ,000
buyers participated generating 183
million in sales volume with 13 million
of that being commissions going to rri
all conducted in this relatively unknown
cryptocurrency called Bitcoin which was
valued at about $10 per coin at the time
things were going great but there was
all kinds of drama going on behind the
scenes and there were even allegations
that dread pirate Roberts tried to hire
hit men to take care of his enemies
although or was never convicted of these
alleged crimes when you look into it the
story is very complicated and it looks
more like an FBI informant tried to set
him up and one of the feds on the Silk
Road case went to prison for corruption
the bigger problem is that he was making
a bunch of operational security mistakes
that allowed law enforcement to find him
to understand these mistakes you first
need to know how to operate an illicit
website on the dark web the silkroad
website itself was nothing special and
is believed to use the lamp stack which
includes phpm MySQL with a web server
like Apache running on Linux now
normally to host a website you point a
URL to an IP address but that's not
going to work if you want your service
to be anonymous and untraceable and
that's where the tour browser and onion
Services come in the Silk Road could
only be viewed in the tour browser
because it was hosted via onion services
and only accessible through the tour
Network distinguished by a onion domain
which provides an overlay Network on top
of TCP IP to hide the services location
and provide endtoend encryption and
authentication communication between the
client and server is broken up between
relays in the network making it
virtually impossible to know the
identity and location of the client or
server if your website needs this
feature you can easily accomplish this
by installing the tour package on your
server then create a tour config file
that points to your service restart tour
and that'll automatically generate your
onion address and now you can access
your website on the tour Network
anonymously but pretty cool and Ross
would have gotten away with it if he
were a little more careful like in the
early days of the Silk Road he
accidentally used his real name in an
online Forum post promoting the site and
he even used stack Overflow just like
the rest of us he also reused the
username Altoid which was eventually
tied to his Gmail account in addition
Bitcoin itself is a public Ledger by
Design and only pseudo Anonymous that's
why modern criminals and privacy
Advocates prefer coins like Monero but
the silliest mistake is that the real IP
address for the server was accidentally
leaked in the website's capture that led
the feds to a server in rovic Iceland
but some developers find this highly sus
because there's really no error that
could leak an IP address in a capture
and the conspiracy theory is that the
FBI used some secret high-tech tool that
they don't want anybody to know about
but at this point they had enough
evidence and arrested him on October 1st
2013 at a public library in San
Francisco They distracted him and were
able to arrest him without him closing
the laptop while he was logged in to the
Silk Roads admin panel and get this they
found a wallet with 144,000 Bitcoin on
that laptop at the time that was only
worth a measly $28 million but at
today's prices would be worth 14 billion
at this point the feds had a slam dunk
case and eventually he received two life
sentences without the possibility of
parole now not many people argue that
what he did was good and he shouldn't go
to prison but many people argue that his
punishment was too harsh murderers and
violent criminals often get far lighter
sentences and Trump chose to Pardon him
because he believes he was unfairly
burned at the stake not for causing harm
but for being a heretic to the Deep
State it's a highly controversial pardon
and people have mixed feelings but one
thing's for sure the Joe Rogan Ross rri
interview is going to be an absolute
Banger this has been the code report
thanks for watching and I will see you
in the next one